http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3726357/why-does-ie9-switch-to-compatibility-mode-on-my-website 

html5 - Why does IE9 switch to compatibility mode on my website? - Stack Overflow current community chat blog Stack Overflow Meta Stack Overflow Stack Overflow Careers your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities Stack Exchange sign up log in tour help Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site stack overflow careers Stack Overflow Questions Tags Users Badges Unanswered Ask Question Take the 2-minute tour × Stack Overflow is a question and answer site for professional and enthusiast programmers. It's 100% free, no registration required. Why does IE9 switch to compatibility mode on my website? up vote 170 down vote favorite 72 I have just installed IE9 beta and on a specific site I created (HTML5) IE9 jumps to compatibility mode unless I manually tell it not to. I have tried removing several parts of the website but no change. Including removing all CSS includes. On some other website of me it goes just fine. Also, don't set it manually because then IE9 remembers the user setting and you can't turn it back to automatic (or at least I haven't found how, not even via private browsing and emptying cache) Anyway. The site where it jumps to compatibility mode: http://alliancesatwar.com/guide/ One where it renders correct: http://geuze.name/basement/ (I can't post more than 1 hyperlink) Both use the same doctype and all. Those sites have a lot in common(apart from appearance) using the same basic template(encoding, meta tags, doctype and the same javascript) It would be great if someone has an answer for me! An HTML5 website that renders in IE7-mode is pretty... lame. html5 css3 internet-explorer-9 compatibility-mode share|improve this question edited 12 hours ago Benjamin Gruenbaum 57.7k17109190 asked Sep 16 '10 at 11:52 René 1,6662813 5   Please explain "jumps into compatibility mode"? If you see the page refresh and a balloon that says that IE has refreshed this page in Compatibility View due to a problem, this means you've found an IE bug called a "hard assert" which is similar to a crash in the rendering engine. We're interested in finding and fixing these; please file a bug at connect.microsoft.com/ie. Thanks! –  EricLaw Oct 1 '10 at 14:31 add a comment |  7 Answers 7 active oldest votes up vote 238 down vote accepted Works in IE9 documentMode for me. Without a X-UA-Compatible header/meta to set an explicit documentMode, you'll get a mode based on: whether the user has clicked the ‘compatibility view’ button in that domain before; perhaps also whether this has happened automatically due to some other content on the site causing IE8/9's renderer to crash and fall back to the old renderer; whether the user has opted to put all sites in compatibility view by default; whether IE thinks the site is on your intranet and so defaults to compatibility view; whether the site in question is in Microsoft's own list of websites that require compatibility view. You can change these settings from ‘Tools -> Compatibility view settings’ from the IE menu. Of course that menu is now sneakily hidden, so you won't see it until you press Alt. As a site author, if you're confident that your site complies to standards (renders well in other browsers, and uses feature-sniffing to decide what browser workarounds to use), I suggest using: <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=Edge"/>
 or the HTTP header: X-UA-Compatible: IE=Edge
 to get the latest renderer whatever IE version is in use. share|improve this answer edited Mar 25 '13 at 15:12 Kermit 24.5k72762 answered Sep 16 '10 at 12:25 bobince 290k61389594 68   Important note: if IE 9 is configured to always show Intranet sites in compatibility mode, neither the meta tag nor the HTTP header will override that. –  Jacob Apr 7 '11 at 19:40 26   As Jacob mentions, IE can default to displaying all local/intranet sites to be in compat mode. Press alt -> Tools Compatability View settings, and make sure you don't have the box checked. –  Cory Mawhorter Aug 15 '11 at 20:27 26   The meta tag only worked for me when I put it right after <head> (see also the answer below). When I put it further down within the <head> element, it didn't work (I still got the torn page). –  Boris van Schooten Feb 3 '12 at 12:27 12   @Jacob: That's kind of misleading. Yes, you will be in compatibility Browser Mode and there's no way out. But you can still use the HTTP header to set the Document Mode to which ever version of IE works the best for your site. IE=Edge should always give you the latest rendering engine. So even if you're technically in compatibility mode, you can have your pages rendered as if in normal mode. Correct me if I'm wrong but at least our Intranet site works exactly like this (even with the "Display intranet sites in compatibility view" setting checked). –  mkataja Aug 24 '12 at 8:58 5   @BorisvanSchooten: I don't know if this is the reason why, but <meta> tags need to be within the first 512 bytes of a processed HTML file. I say "processed" because you can have all kinds of PHP up there, but the rendered code is what's important. I've gotten to where I put all of my comments about <meta> below the <meta> tags, so that I don't break the requirement. –  doubleJ Oct 16 '12 at 3:44  | show 12 more comments up vote 32 down vote I put <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=Edge"/>
 first thing after <head>
 (I read it somewhere, I can't recall) I could not believe it did work!! share|improve this answer answered Mar 17 '11 at 15:41 pkario 1,06621325      You have to close the tab and open a new tab, did you try that? –  Zeb Sep 22 '11 at 10:47 1   He said "did" not "didn't" ;) –  Nathan J. Brauer Aug 16 '12 at 19:32 13   +1, this is a very valuable note. If you have <script>s inside <head> before this meta statement, it (IE=edge) will be ignored. –  jakub.g Sep 28 '12 at 15:02 add a comment |  up vote 20 down vote To force IE to render in IE9 standards mode you should use <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
 Some conditions may cause IE9 to jump down into the compatibility modes. By default this can occur on intranet sites. share|improve this answer edited Feb 16 '11 at 22:42 TodK 979817 answered Sep 16 '10 at 12:00 Delan Azabani 35.6k890146      It works in the other website. So that shouldn't be it. Also, that meta-tag is evil since you'd manually have to update it every time there is a new IE version. –  René Sep 16 '10 at 12:16 2   Sorry I can't fix your problem. However, I've edited my answer to use IE=edge instead, which invokes the use of the latest engine available, always. –  Delan Azabani Sep 16 '10 at 12:18      Your assumption is incorrect. The demos specify X-UA-Compatible to prevent IE from showing the Compatibility View button since if the user pushes it, the site content would not work correctly. –  EricLaw Oct 1 '10 at 14:30      @ReneGeuze, you got it wrong. Edge always refers to the latest version of IE. –  neoswf Mar 9 '12 at 14:25      @Shlomi.A. The answer was edited. It first used IE=9 –  René Apr 4 '12 at 9:02  | show 1 more comment up vote 1 down vote The site at http://www.HTML-5.com/index.html does have the X-UA-Compatible meta tag but still goes into Compatibility View as indicated by the "torn page" icon in the address bar. How do you get the menu option to force IE 9 (Final Version 9.0.8112.16421) to render a page in Standards Mode? I tried right clicking that torn page icon as well as the "Alt" key trick to display the additional menu options mentioned by Rene Geuze, but those didn't work. share|improve this answer answered Mar 18 '11 at 19:33 Rob at TVSeries.com 9791110 3   Remove the IE conditional comment around the meta. You are serving the page as application/xhtml+xml, so XML parsing rules are used; XML does not support conditional comments. In any case it doesn't make any sense; the browser must choose a mode before it can decide what conditional comments to interpret. –  bobince Feb 3 '12 at 13:45 add a comment |  up vote 1 down vote I've posted this comment on a seperate StackOverflow thread, but thought it was worth repeating here: For our in-house ASP.Net app, adding the "X-UA-Compatible" tag on the web page, in the web.config or in the code-behind made absolutely no difference. The only thing that worked for us was to manually turn off this setting in IE8: (Sigh.) This problem only seems to happen with IE8 & IE9 on intranet sites. External websites will work fine and use the correct version of IE8/9, but for internal websites, IE9 suddenly decides it's actually IE7, and doesn't have any HTML 5 support. No, I don't quite understand this logic either. My reluctant solution has been to test whether the browser has HTML 5 support (by creating a canvas, and testing if it's valid), and displaying this message to the user if it's not valid: It's not particularly user-friendly, but getting the user to turn off this annoying setting seems to be the only way to let them run in-house HTML 5 web apps properly. Or get the users to use Chrome. ;-) share|improve this answer edited Jul 7 '14 at 8:42 answered Feb 13 '14 at 9:27 Mike Gledhill 2,66422725 add a comment |  up vote 0 down vote Looks fine to me: You're sure you didn't on the settings globally or something? This is a clean installation of the beta on Windows 7. The developer tools report that the page is defaulting to IE9 Standard Mode. share|improve this answer answered Sep 16 '10 at 12:07 Yi Jiang 29.6k888108      I had more than 1 report of this error. Though maybe it has to do with the base dir ( alliancesatwar.com ) that it renders all sub-dirs in compatibility mode as well. But then I have the question, what in the root of the website makes IE render the website in compatibility mode? So maybe at least this guide is coded right. I hope so then. –  René Sep 16 '10 at 12:18      @Rene Strange, I just reproduced it, by clicking on the Guide link from the homepage. But this only happened once, and after a few attempts I have yet to reproduce this, just that once only –  Yi Jiang Sep 16 '10 at 12:28 add a comment |  up vote 0 down vote I recently had to resolve this isssue and here's what I did : first of all, this solution is around tunning Apache server. Second main think is that there's a bug in the IE9 which means that the meta tag will not work, intead of this solution try this find/open your httpd.conf uncomment/or add the following line LoadModule headers_module modules/mod_headers.so
 add the following lines <IfModule headers_module>
      Header set X-UA-Compatible: IE=EmulateIE8
</IfModule>
 save/restart your apache server, browse to your page with IE9, use tools like wireshark or fiddler or use IE developer tools to check the header is there. let me now if the solution worked for you. cheers. share|improve this answer answered Nov 30 '12 at 14:56 mbtdoor 574622 add a comment |  protected by Gabe Mar 24 '11 at 6:56 Thank you for your interest in this question. Because it has attracted low-quality answers, posting an answer now requires 10 reputation on this site. Would you like to answer one of these unanswered questions instead? Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged html5 css3 internet-explorer-9 compatibility-mode or ask your own question. asked 4 years ago viewed 119059 times active today Linked 10 Cannot seem to get rid of Compatibility View? 0 How can I create alternating background colors for listview rows while only using ItemTemplate? 2 ASP.NET Project and IE10 Compatibility Mode issues in Windows 7 1 How do I stop IE9 automatically going into compatibility mode? 5 Does the X-UA Compatible http header actually work for IE9? 2 Array.map not working in IE9 1 HTML5 Canvas hosted on Dropbox doesn't work with IE9 3 Inconsistent UserAgent strings with IE9 0 MVC / Internet Explorer 10 defaults to Compatibility View? 0 CSS linear gradients not working on live server (IE only), fine on localhost see more linked questions… Related 1 IE9 not switching to IE8 mode with X-UA-Compatible=IE=8 68 JavaScript: Can I detect IE9 if it's in IE7 or IE8 compatibility mode? 2 Does IE7 compatibility mode work the same on IE9 as it works on IE8? 1 force website render doctype html5 standard & IE9 browser 0 Why does IE9 give the option to render in compatibility mode 1 Forcing compatibility mode in IE9 16 How to prevent IE9 from rendering intranet sites in compatibility mode 1 IE9 keep switching to Compatibility mode on my site 4 Internet Explorer automatically switches to compatibility mode (IE9 and IE10) 1 Website rendering in compatibility mode in ie9 Hot Network Questions grep files from list How do I add multiple formulas into one cell? Is there another simple way to append line to end of file other than `>>`? Heat kernel upper bound on compact Riemannian manifold How can you slice with string keys instead of integers on a python OrderedDict? What can be substituted for green onions when making crab cakes? What does 'aye' mean in this context? Why does ls display a non-existing file? How could Troi promote to rank Commander so easily and why didn't La Forge, Data and others do that? Can you force property onto players in Monopoly How do I create a rectangle with an open corner in Adobe Illustrator? Should I give honest (but bad) feedback about a colleague when asked by another team looking to hire him? Bootstrap conceptual question, why should it work? What is the minimum number of straight lines to connect all the dots on this grid? Why does SpaceX appear to get less funding from NASA for the same thing as competitors? Should you conform to journal formatting requirements for the initial submission? To cite a publication with two authors in a presentation, should I write "X and Y" or "X et al."? Is this textbook written in LaTeX? Does the Monk retain his AC Bonus if he loses his Dex bonus to AC? Where is the safest seat in the plane? Securing books from toddler Code Golf Image Downloader What is the best angle for an enderpearl if I am aiming for distance? Why does notation for functions seem to be abused and ambiguous? more hot questions question feed default tour help blog chat data legal privacy policy work here advertising info mobile contact us feedback Technology Life / Arts Culture / Recreation Science Other Stack Overflow Server Fault Super User Web Applications Ask Ubuntu Webmasters Game Development TeX - LaTeX Programmers Unix & Linux Ask Different (Apple) WordPress Development Geographic Information Systems Electrical Engineering Android Enthusiasts Information Security Database Administrators Drupal Answers SharePoint User Experience Mathematica Salesforce more (14) Photography Science Fiction & Fantasy Graphic Design Seasoned Advice (cooking) Home Improvement Personal Finance & Money Academia more (10) English Language & Usage Skeptics Mi Yodeya (Judaism) Travel Christianity Arqade (gaming) Bicycles Role-playing Games more (21) Mathematics Cross Validated (stats) Theoretical Computer Science Physics MathOverflow more (7) Stack Apps Meta Stack Exchange Area 51 Stack Overflow Careers site design / logo © 2015 stack exchange inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required rev 2015.1.13.2168 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled