http://www.instantshift.com/2012/06/08/15-free-html5-audio-players-for-your-website-and-blogs/

15 Free HTML5 Audio Players For Your Website and Blogs | InstantShift InstantShift - Web Designers and Developers Daily Resource. More Articles How To Free Themes Events Freelancing Graphic Design Icons Illustrator Inspiration Logos Photography Photoshop Typography Wallpaper Even More... Home Web Design WordPress CSS Tools Tutorials Fonts Freebies Photography Icons Showcases More Articles How To Free Themes Events Freelancing Graphic Design Illustrator Infographics Inspiration JavaScript Logos Photoshop Typography Wallpaper Even More… Twitter Facebook RSS Pinterest Tweet Pin It 15 Free HTML5 Audio Players For Your Website and Blogs Posted in Tools June 8th, 2012 By DKumar M. 15 Comments Advertisement HTML5 is sure to be a big hit this year as far as web design trends go, and rightfully so. It’s new, exciting, easy to understand and better than anything that has come before it. Up until recently, we have had to navigate a grey area in terms of compatibility and definition, and as a result, many of the early adoptions of HTML5 have been partial or complete disasters. The first thing to understand is where HTML5 ends and CSS3 begins. HTML5 is just the markup – a set of standards that define how a document should be structured and how browsers should interpret it. Rather than shouldering all the responsibility for presentation and functionality, HTML5 gets back to basics, allowing us to tap into APIs and native browser functionality, while looking to CSS to create the visual look and feel. In the end we are left with a straight-forward and simplified language for creating websites and applications. Previously, the ability to play any type of audio within a browser involved using Adobe Flash or other browser plugins. Via one of the most exciting and long-awaited features in HTML5 the <audio> element, enabling native audio playback within the browser which makes it easy to stream your audio online. Instead of spending time on researching for the ones you needed, Here in this compilation, we pick the some of the best website HTML5 audio player options freely available to use. Media Element MediaElement is an audio an video player which is written in pure HTML5 and CSS. Instead of offering an HTML5 player to modern browsers and a totally separate Flash player to older browsers, MediaElement.js upgrades them with custom Flash and Silverlight plugins that mimic the HTML5 MediaElement API. MediaElement offers Plugins for WordPress, Drupal, Joomla, jQuery, BlogEngine.NET, ruby gem, and plone. Official Link Github Page SoundManager 2 SoundManager 2 makes it easier to play audio using JavaScript. Using HTML5 and Flash, SoundManager 2 provides reliable cross-platform audio under a single JavaScript API. More details Speakker Speakker comes out of the box in two variations and with incredible options of customization: Flexible dimensions, unlimited colors and two different button sets for light and dark themes. Easy to set up. Just a few lines of Javascript and a quantum CSS. Official Link audio.js audio.js is a drop-in javascript library that allows HTML5’s <audio> tag to be used anywhere. It uses native where available and an invisible flash player to emulate for other browsers. It provides a consistent html player UI to all browsers which can be styled used standard css. More details HTML5 Audio Player A very lightweight audio player written in HTML 5 with JQuery and CSS3. No Flash! Developed by Scott Andrew. Official Link jPlayer jPlayer is the completely free and open source (GPL/MIT) media library written in JavaScript. A jQuery plugin, jPlayer allows you to rapidly weave cross platform audio and video into your web pages. jPlayer’s comprehensive API allows you to create innovative media solutions. More details Github Page JME jme is an HTML5 audio / video development kit with Flash Fallback, which focuses on flexibility, intuitive DOM-API and semantic code. More details HTML5media HTML5media enables <video> and <audio> tags in all major browsers To make HTML5 video and audio tags work in all major browsers, simply add the single line of code somewhere in the <head> of your document. That’s it! There is no second step! More details Uppod HTML5 Player Uppod HTML5 Player lets you build your own audio player. All you had to do is to create a player of your choice using option panel and get the respective HTML code. More details MooTools HTML5 Audio Player MooTools HTML5 Audio Player is a cross browser audio player made with HTML5 and the Mootools JavaScript framework. More details Github Page HTML5 Audio Player Bookmarklet HTML5 Audio Player Bookmarklet adds audio player to play linked audio files on any page. Supported file formats depend on the browser used. Use it on any page which has links to downloadable audio files, for example, you can play music stored in your Dropbox – visit dropbox.com/m then navigate to folder with music files and use this bookmarklet. More details Accessible Audio Player (AAP) AAP is a fully accessible cross-browser media player. AAP uses the HTML5 element for browsers that support it. Browsers that support neither degrade to a list of links to MP3 files. AAP is available in a standalone version or (with an additional P) as a WordPress plugin called Accessible Audio Player Plugin (AAPP). More details OIPlayer jQuery plugin OIPlayer jQuery plugin is a HTML5 audio and video player with fallback to Java and Flash. OIPlayer ‘attaches’ itself to all video and/or audio tags it encounters. Besides the general configuration of the plugin itself, it uses for each individual tag the attributes the respective tag has like poster, width, controls, autoplay etc. More details HTML5 Music Player Plugin HTML5 Music Player is a jQuery plugin which lets you play mp3 as well as ogg files. More details Degradable HTML5 audio and video Plugin This is a useful wordpress plugin for html 5 audio and video allows you to embed media for native playback in supported browsers and offers a graceful degradation for unsupported browsers. More details Tutorial: How to Build HTML5 Audio Player with jQuery This tutorial is written by NeutronCreations team about Building a Custom HTML5 Audio Player with jQuery. In this tutorial you’ll run through the code to understand how it works, covering a few caveats along the way. Like it? Share it. Meet the Author: DKumar M. Hello, iShift was accidentally founded by a group of professionals. One of them is me, DKumar M. , an Asian freelancer who is still single. My work covers advertising, consultation, programming and web design areas. Author's posts Homepage Advertisement 15 Comments adumpaul June 8, 2012 Excellent design.Really nice html5 tutorial. Reply Adrian June 8, 2012 Check our HTML5 audio player: http://designmodo.com/audio-player/ Reply DKumar M. June 8, 2012 Nice tutorial…Thanks for the suggestion Reply Nahid June 8, 2012 The designs are excellent! Will try tutorials and make something better. Reply Reeha June 8, 2012 Fantastic collection. nice HTML5 audio player tutorial. thanks Reply Sandeep Verma July 5, 2012 HTML5 MP3 Player with Playlist have HTML5 audio the element enable native audio playback within the browser. It supports all browsers i.e. iOS, Android, Firefox, Chrome, Safari, IE and Opera. http://html5.svnlabs.com/ Reply Mark December 13, 2012 Do any of these support Icecast streams? I already have a stream, but don’t want to set up an additional RTMP server. Flash is buggy for streaming, and being phased out of mobile devices. HTML5 doesn’t seem to be able to pick up a stream url without an additional media server. Reply Aleksov April 1, 2013 Look at my HTML5 audio & video player, w. stream support http://set-pro.net/scr/ptmedia/ Reply Robert December 20, 2013 Fantastic Collection…Nice HTML Audio tutorial..I will try this steps and make something better… Thanks for Sharing this helpful Steps… Joomla Video player Reply Paul Valkama January 13, 2014 Great to see all the work being done! Here’s a new one – http://zoomclock.com It’s a free web based Player that tries to make HTML 5 Audio as easy as possible. Fill in a quick form, and publish online. It also adds enhanced content (logo, text, links, social …). Reply Sajjad March 7, 2014 Here is another free html5 music player http://www.peakplayer.com , i am using this on my personal website Reply Alex April 16, 2014 If you are interested in creating a custom html5 audio player, I wrote this tutorial to help. I cover how JavaScript, CSS, and HTML are used to create an audio player. alexkatz.me/blog/html5-audio/building-a-custom-html5-audio-player-with-javascript/ Reply gakerom August 18, 2014 All of them are great but none is working. Wasted time. Reply Leave a Comment Yourself Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name * (please do not use a spammy keyword or a domain as your name, or it will be deleted.) Email * Website Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong> Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting. Advertise Submit News Contribute Demo Advertise at InstantShift Subscribe to iShift Our RSS Feed Email Updates Follow on Twitter Join on Facebook Our Friends Useful Links CGTrader 3D models eCommerce Website Builder KickVick – Daily Awesome Kicks PSD to HTML Smashing Apps PSD to Wordpress Themes Affordable Cloud Hosting Contact Us Archives Categories Theme Demo Submit News Become an Author RSS Feed Twitter Home Advertising Advertisement Latest Community News Twitter Submit Submit News Follow Us 55 Funny But Hurting True Facts About Daily Life. #46 Hur... Best E-Commerce Plugins for WordPress Happy People Do A Lot Of Things, But They Never Do These ... 4 Health Hazards Every Designer and Developer Should Avoid How to optimize your website’s landing page for mobile How To Make Visually Complex Information Easy To Understand Hosting Partner Hosted By MediaTemple Accelerated By MaxCDN Popular Posts 88 Brilliant Examples of Forced Perspective Photography 99 Excellent Examples of Forced Perspective Photography 99 Amazing Widescreen Wallpapers To Spice Up Your Desktop 80+ Strange and Fantastic Buildings Architecture InstantShift About InstantShift InstantShift is leading design and inspiration related community for web designers and developers daily resource, inspiration and premium web design and development. Useful links: Home Advertise Archive Categories Connect with Us: Write for Us Submit News Follow us on Twitter Become a Facebook Fan RSS Feed Contact Us: Contact Us Copyright © 2008-2014 InstantShift. All rights reserved. Top