http://www.scratchinginfo.net/top-10-best-html5-audio-players/

Top 10 Best HTML5 Audio Players | Web Development Tutorials and Resources @ ScratchingInfo Pages Menu Home Blog SEO Contact Us Privacy Policy Categories Menu WordPress WordPress Plugins WordPress Themes WordPress Tutorials WordPress Themes 2014 Joomla Joomla Tutorials Joomla Templates Joomla Plugins Resources Freebies Apps Flash Fonts Icons Inspiration Photoshop Brushes Logos Typography PHP Graphics Business Cards PSD Templates/Photoshop eCommerce Zen Cart Zen Cart Tutorials Zen Cart Templates Web Design HTML jQuery Home » HTML Resources/Templates and Tutorials » Top 10 Best HTML5 Audio Players Posted by scratchinginfo in HTML Resources/Templates and Tutorials | 1 Comments Top 10 Best HTML5 Audio Players Tweet HTML5 is an advance version of old HTML for developing and representing your content on the web. It has amazing features and Audio/Video support. I’ve collected list of Top 10 Best HTML5 Audio Players. Here is the list:   You might find these useful HTML Email Templates metro ui template html5 audio player entertainment website templates real estate website templates 1. Scott Andrew’s HTML5 audio player | Demo By look, this plugin might not inspire you but it works in the awesome way that you need. It is developed in HTML5 with mixture of CSS3 and JQuery. If you want just a simple audio player, this is the best choice for you. 2. Media Element | Demo This advance HTML5 audio and video player is totally written in CSS and HTML. It also supports Silverlight and flash players compatible with all older browsers as well as modern browsers. It is also available for different platforms like Ruby Gem, jQuery, Drupal, WordPress and Joomla. 3. jPlayer | Demo This easy to use plugin is totally written in HTML5 and CSS with jQuery. Plugins for serveral platforms like Joomla, WordPress etc. is available. It has cross-platform, cross-browser and multi-codec support with consistent interface and API. File types supported are .mav, .webm, .ogg, .mp4 and .mp3. 4. MooTools HTML5 Audio Player | Demo This audio player is written in Mootools JavaScript framework and HTML5. It has come drawbacks for example, reading fonts on windows is hard and it just support latest Safari, Chrome and Firefox versions. 5. SoundManager 2 | Demo This tiny plugin is written in Flash and HTML5 and compatible with all the browsers. You can find everything in a single JavaScript API. 6. audio.js | Demo This plugin is written in JavaScript that enables you to be used with HTML5 tag <audio>. It gives you a HTML player UI that can be styled with CSS. It is compatible with all browsers. 7. Speakker | Demo This popular audio player comes up with two variations with different colors, buttons and flexible dimension. It uses the technology of Projeckktor that is compatible with all browsers. 8. HTML5 Music Player | Demo This beautiful audio player is totally written in JQuery and HTML5 and developed by Oman Clark. 9. OIPlayer jQuery plugin | Demo This plugin can play both audio and video. You will find consistent style on all browser. It has play, pause, mute and unmute button with full window support. Customizable with CSS. 10. mb.miniAudioPlayer | Demo This HTML5 audio engine is completely written on JQuery framework that allows you to listen ogg and mp3 file. If it is not supported in any browser, then you will find an invisible flash player. Chameleon HTML5 Audio Player With/Without Playlist | Demo You can customize this html5 audio player by changing the color for: player background, volume slider, timer, buffer, seekbar, song title, playlist background, playlist font and playlist item line separator. In this manner you have the possibility to integrate this audio player in any design. HTML5 Audio Player with Playlist | Demo ULTIMATE RESPONSIVE HTML5 audio player with HUGE amount of options and possibilities. Restyle the player with css into pretty much anything! Check the demo examples to get you imagination going. Universal HTML5 Audio Player | Demo Compatible with iOS, Android, and Desktop Browsers. Conveniently uses Flash Player for non-HTML5 browsers when necessary. Protect your audio from being hijacked by using a beep overlay, or another overlay sound. Support for both static pages & dynamic webapps Auto fallback to Flash in Firefox if not using .ogg files. A circular progress meter displays playback position & time remaining. Easily customize the color of the progress meter. HTML5 Audio Buttons are smart, and stop playback when another button starts playmode. ProgressionPlayer – Responsive Audio/Video Player | Demo Responsive Player: Mobile, Tablet and Desktop optimized 5 Skins to choose from Audio Playlists supported Unlimited players per page Retina Support: ProgressionPlayer is optimized for high resolution displays like the Macbook Pro with Retina Display, iPhones and iPads Custom Flash and Silverlight players that mimic the HTML5 MediaElement API for older browsers Players automatically stop playing when another player is activated Tiny Music Player – HTML5 Audio w/ Flash Backup | Demo Tiny Music Player is the perfect solution for webmasters who want to play music on their web pages but don’t want the player itself taking up a lot of space. Total Control HTML5 Audio Player | Demo The Total Control HTML5 Audio Player is jQuery plugin that streams audio and features a manageable playlist. It features 3 skins and a mini player option for a more compact interface. Playlist rows can be dragged and dropped to rearrange song order and new songs can be added on the fly. Also, users can choose which songs are to be skipped when repeat is enabled. Edge HTML5 Audio jQuery Plugin | Demo A custom HTML5 and jQuery Audio Player. Animated GIF as playing indicator, to use just add a <audio> tag in your source and call the script. 2 Themes included, blue and grey, but gives you the opportunity to develop your own easily. HTML5 Vinyl-styled Music Player | Demo   Vinyl-styled Music Player is the perfect candidate for HTML5 music player on your website. Just imagine Music Player which really easy to use with wonderful mix of classic and modern taste. MusicBox – HTML5 Music Player | Demo Uses audio tag with flash fallback (ensures functionality in older browsers) Uses local storage to keep a “favorites” playlist Entire app is imageless (CSS3) Pulls metadata (including album cover) from music files List view and tile view (using album covers) HTML5 Music Player with 3 CSS3 Skins | Demo This HTML5 music player is great for anyone who need their music to work on both desktops and mobile devices. It has three CSS3 based skins to choose from and comes with a custom built Flash fallback for older browsers that don’t support HTML5 Audio. Related Posts Premium HTML Templates of September 2013 6 Bootstrap HTML Software & Technology Templates 16+ Best Metro Style HTML Templates 20 Excellent HTML5 jQuery Plugins 40+ Professional Online CV & Resume Templates New HTML Templates of August 2013 1 Comment Helen September 10, 2013 Nice list, I use mb.miniAudioPlayer on one of my websites, I like it can play ogg files. Reply Post a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name * Email * Website Prove that you are a human! Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong> Best WordPress Theme of 2014 WordPress Themes, Site Templates Categories Best & Top PSD Templates Blog Business Cards Deals eCommerce Templates Flash Free and Best Fonts Free and Best Icons Free Android, iPhone, iPad & Windows Apps Freebies HTML Resources/Templates and Tutorials Inspiration Joomla Plugins Joomla Templates Joomla Tutorials jQuery Resources & Tutorials Logos Photoshop Brushes PHP Tutorials and Resources Scratching Store SEO Typography Uncategorized Web Design Wordpress Plugins Wordpress Themes Wordpress Tutorials Zen Cart Templates Zen Cart Tutorials Popular Articles Wordpress Menu Plugin Business Email Templates Flipbook jQuery Metro UI Template Wordpress Maintenance Mode File Hosting Script Cute Blogger Templates HTML5 Audio Player Wordpress Shortcode Plugin jQuery Timeline Best WordPress Plugins Fullscreen Wordpress Theme Premium WordPress Themes HTML5 Tutorial for Beginners With Examples Full Width Slider Wordpress Best Free WordPress Themes Popular Articles Software Company Website Template Baseball Font WordPress Premium Themes Wordpress News Theme Bootstrap Grid PSD Email Newsletter Templates jQuery News Ticker Top WordPress Plugins Tumblr Themes Simple Buddypress Themes Twenty Thirteen Child Theme Best Wordpress Editor Joomla Magazine Template Joomla Editor Best Free WordPress Themes 2014 Wordpress Recipe Theme Popular Articles Best Newsletter Design Wordpress Travel Theme Best Sans Serif Fonts Responsive WordPress Themes Landing Page Templates Email Marketing Templates Best WordPress Themes Metro Style Wordpress Theme Best Tumblr Themes Wordpress HTML5 Themes Wellness Wordpress Theme CSS Editor Online Weather Icons Premium WordPress Plugins osCommerce Templates Dark Wordpress Themes Home Blog SEO Contact Us Privacy Policy © ScratchingInfo.net - All Rights Reserved