Designing with Progressive Enhancement: Building the web that works for everyone. By Filament Group: Todd Parker, Patty Toland, Scott Jehl, Maggie Costello Wachs Back to Filament Group Designing with Progressive Enhancement Building the Web that Works for Everyone by: Todd Parker, Patty Toland, Scott Jehl, and Maggie Costello Wachs with Technical Editor: James Craig of W3C WAI-ARIA About this book Code Examples News & Reviews About this Book: Progressive enhancement is an approach to web development that aims to deliver the best possible experience to the widest possible audience — whether your users are viewing your sites on an iPhone, a high-end desktop system, a Kindle, or hearing them on a screen-reader, their experience should be as fully featured and functional as possible. Designing with Progressive Enhancement is a practical guide that both explains the principles and benefits of progressive enhancement, and explores detailed examples to teach you how, where, and when to implement specific coding and scripting approaches that embody broadly accessible development practices. In this book, you'll learn: Why common coding approaches leave users behind, and how progressive enhancement is a more inclusive and accessible alternative How to analyze complex interface designs, see the underlying experience that will work everywhere, and add enhancements safely A unique browser capabilities testing suite that helps deliver enhancements only to devices that can handle them Real-world best practices for coding HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to work with progressive enhancement, and cases where forward-looking HTML5 and CSS3 techniques can be applied effectively today How to factor in accessibility features like WAI-ARIA and keyboard support to ensure universal access Detailed techniques to transform semantic HTML into interactive components like sliders, tabs, tree controls, and charts, along with downloadable jQuery-based widgets to apply directly in your projects With this book, you'll get: Designing with Progressive Enhancement includes a comprehensive overview of progressive enhancement techniques and best practices, and detailed step-by-step instruction for twelve rich internet widgets with downloadable project-ready HTML, CSS and jQuery scripts. Each widget starts with semantic HTML that will work on any device. We then transform that native basic markup into a complex component, include full keyboard support to replicate the native element behaviors users expect, and add ARIA attributes for screen readers (guided by co-editor of the W3C ARIA spec, James Craig). All widget code examples and project-ready jQuery scripts are available as a free download with book purchase. Accessible charts and graphs Generate dynamic data-driven charts from HTML tables using the HTML5 canvas API Customized Native Form Controls Layer enhancements on top of existing HTML components to execute complex designs without sacrificing accessibility. Non-native Form Controls Create custom interactions such as sliders, star-ratings, and list builders that manipulate standard form controls behind the scenes. Application-style navigation components Build highly interactive and accessible desktop-style components like tree controls, modal dialogs, and custom tooltips. Table of Contents The case for designing with Progressive Enhancement (Chapter Available Online) Our Progressive Enhancement Approach Progressive enhancement in action: the x-ray perspective Writing meaningful markup Applying styles effectively (Chapter Available Online) Scripting Enhancements and Interactivity Testing Browser Capabilities Building Widgets with Progressive Enhancement Collapsible Content Tabs (with back button support) Tooltips Tree Charts Dialogs and Overlays Buttons Checkboxes, radio buttons, and ratings Slider Custom select Tag list builder Custom File Input Looking Ahead Code Examples: Designing with Progressive Enhancement shows how to build complex user interfaces that are accessible, and work on the widest variety of browsers. The book features EnhanceJS, a new JavaScript framework that tests browser capabilities in order to target enhancements effectively, and twelve full-featured, accessible, progressive-enhancement-powered widgets built using jQuery. Designing with Progressive Enhancement teaches you how to use EnhanceJS to apply enhancements only in browsers that are capable of rendering them properly. This site runs on EnhanceJS as well! Code included with the book Downloadable code examples for the following widgets will be available free to those who purchase Designing with Progressive Enhancement. To access the code examples: Visit http://filamentgroup.com/dwpe/code/. The username is dwpe and the password is the first word of the first paragraph in chapter 15 of the book (case sensitive). Collapsible Content Available for download! Tabs Tooltips Tree Available for download! Charts Available for download! Dialogs and Overlays Buttons Checkboxes, radios, ratings Available for download! Slider Available for download! Custom select Tag list builder Custom File Input Available for download! News & Reviews: “An absolute must read for any web designer or developer who doesn’t already master the art of progressive enhancement. In fact, I think it’s a must read even if you think you know everything about progressive enhancement already.” - Roger Johansson of 456 Berea Street Read full review on 456bereastreet.com “I highly recommend this book to anyone, at any level of web design skills. … Using the book, I was able to quickly convert an ancient website into a beautiful jQuery-driven site, that thrilled my clients.” - K. Penn via Amazon Read full review on Amazon.com “Web accessibility without compromising on design. Filament Group does it best. Think I’ll be picking up a copy of this” - Matt Brickner via Twitter View tweet on twitter.com “Great purchase. If you’re interested at all in forward & compatibility of the sites you build this book is one you’ll need to learn.” - P. Dunphy via Amazon Read full review on Amazon.com “Awesome, I can already feel my code getting lighter.” - skeey on Twitter View tweet on twitter.com Now available for purchase from: Buy now Buy now Buy now Buy now Already purchased the book? Download code examples About Filament Group Todd Parker, Patty Toland, Scott Jehl, and Maggie Costello Wachs are Filament Group, Inc. Together, they design and develop highly functional user interfaces for consumer- and business-oriented websites, wireless devices, installed and web-based applications, with a specific focus on delivering intuitive and usable experiences that are also broadly accessible. They are sponsor and design leads of the jQuery UI team, for whom they designed and developed ThemeRoller.com, and actively contribute to ongoing development of the official jQuery UI library and CSS Framework. Back to Filament Group What we do Who we are Our work Articles Filament Group, Inc. 102 South Street , 3rd floor Boston MA 02111 Phone: 617.482.7120 Email: hello@filamentgroup.com © 2010 Filament Group, Inc. All rights reserved.