http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6665245/deploy-webapp-from-eclipse-to-tomcat-root-context

java - deploy webapp from Eclipse to Tomcat root context - Stack Overflow current community chat blog Stack Overflow Meta Stack Overflow Stack Overflow Careers your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities Stack Exchange sign up log in tour help Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site stack overflow careers Stack Overflow Questions Tags Users Badges Unanswered Ask Question Take the 2-minute tour × Stack Overflow is a question and answer site for professional and enthusiast programmers. It's 100% free, no registration required. deploy webapp from Eclipse to Tomcat root context up vote 31 down vote favorite 7 I deploy a .war application from Eclipse by adding the "Dynamic Web Module" facet, then right-clicking on the project and selecting "Run As -> Run on Server". This works great, but by default the project is deployed to the /web context of Tomcat, because the project name is web. Is there a way I can deploy from Eclipse to Tomcat without changing the project name to ROOT? java eclipse tomcat share|improve this question asked Jul 12 '11 at 13:50 Dónal 69.6k102337565 add a comment |  5 Answers 5 active oldest votes up vote 41 down vote accepted you need to so to Server View.. double click on tomcat, this opens a new window (with 2 tabs) select the one which says Modules your application would be listed there (with the context path) you can change the context path from /web to anything else from here. alternatively, you can open server.xml look for a tag called context. within this tag you'll find the contextroot as /web.. change it. share|improve this answer answered Jul 12 '11 at 14:13 Anantha Sharma 4,2972922 add a comment |  up vote 10 down vote Right click on your project in Eclipse and select Properties->Web Project Settings. Change context name there. Alternatively you can edit it in .settings/org.eclipse.wst.common.component file inside your project share|improve this answer answered Jul 12 '11 at 14:14 maximdim 5,0351633      This only works if the project is defined as a webproject, otherwise can Eclipse do the link without it? –  k.honsali Jun 24 '13 at 17:44 1   If it's not web project I don't think you will be able to deploy to Tomcat via Eclipse's server facility. –  maximdim Jun 24 '13 at 19:59      Note, to run as the site root, change the context to "/". I then had to right-click the server in the Servers view and invoke "Clean". –  Steve Oct 29 '13 at 23:00 add a comment |  up vote 4 down vote In the Web Project Settings for the project, set the Context root to "/". (Without quotes) Just in case you are using apache2 with mod_proxy. In my virtual host definition I have a Location entry for the root context:   <Proxy balancer://ajpCluster>
    BalancerMember ajp://localhost:18009 route=s1
    BalancerMember ajp://localhost:28009 route=s2
  </Proxy>

  # A "Location" entry for hosting static content.  Would put mod_expire settings
  # here
  <Location /resources>
    ProxyPass !  #Don't proxy this location
    ExpiresActive on
    ExpiresDefault "access plus 1 seconds"
    ExpiresByType application/javascript "access plus 1 months"
  </Location>

  #...

  # This must be the last "Location" if you are overloading others, otherwise
  # the others won't load as apache uses the first one listed that matches
  <Location />
    ProxyPass balancer://ajpCluster stickysession=JSESSIONID
  </Location>
 share|improve this answer answered Jun 2 '12 at 2:48 Ivan Pointer 513 add a comment |  up vote 3 down vote I tried to comment above, but I have not earned 50 rep points yet :-) I've been using StackOverflow for years and never answered any questions. So here goes: After you have configured a server in eclipse, you can further configure it and add/remove/tweak any modules (aka contexts/webapps) that you want it to host. You should have a Servers window that list the server (if not: Window > Show View > Servers). Double click on on the server to open the config page. There are 2 tabs, but they are in the bottom left corner. Open Modules, any module you added will be listed. If you want a module to be the default one (so if you type localhost it will server index.jsp, for example) make sure that path says "/". The default value will be what is in your webapps Properties > Web Project Settings, and it usually be the project name. If you set it there, it will not let you leave it blank, so use "/". Make sure you save the config changes for your Server. You may also need to "publish" it to make the changes propagate out to the actual server. A last thing to check is find the server install, open conf/server.xml and look for your contexts. You can change the path there as well. Note that path="" equates to "/", tomcat will make that the ROOT app. Also note that Eclipse will create an empty webapp named ROOT when you first publish it (this will also be in server.xml). It is safe to delete it. Even though your deployed app will have the project name as the webapp name, as long as the path is "", it will treat it as the default ROOT. share|improve this answer answered Jun 25 '14 at 16:56 user2822280 12113 add a comment |  up vote 1 down vote Right click the application > Properties > Web Project setings and set the Context root to ROOT (or to empty - I haven't tried it, so try both and let me know which one worked) share|improve this answer answered Jul 12 '11 at 14:13 Bozho 294k49572769      this one worked stackoverflow.com/questions/6665245/… –  Dónal Jul 12 '11 at 19:46 add a comment |  Your Answer   draft saved draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Stack Exchange Post as a guest Name Email required, but not shown Post as a guest Name Email required, but not shown discard By posting your answer, you agree to the privacy policy and terms of service. Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged java eclipse tomcat or ask your own question. asked 3 years ago viewed 17099 times active 6 months ago Get the weekly newsletter! Top questions and answers Important announcements Unanswered questions see an example newsletter By subscribing, you agree to the privacy policy and terms of service. Linked 3 URL issue with tomcat include project name -1 Apache Tomcat 7 - The requested resource is not available Related 3 Maven webapp with Eclipse and WTP plugin deploy files in stranges ways in Tomcat 3 Sources from referenced projects are not deployed to Tomcat in Eclipse 0 Eclipse WebApp deploying over Maven with Tomcat results in Error: 'Failed to deploy application at context path' 4 deploy project to Tomcat from Eclipse 5 Eclipse, Tomcat project context root is eclipse folder 0 Deploying in Tomcat from eclipse 1 How to get eclipse webby plugin to run webapp at root context 11 Eclipse + Tomcat - Serve webapp directly from workspace 1 Change folder name in webapp when deployin in Tomcat from Eclipse 1 Where is my webapp deployed(From Eclipse to Tomcat 7) Hot Network Questions What percentage of a professor's salary is paid for by tution? Is there a law that you can add or multiply to both sides of an equation? Need tall QED symbol Why use plywood to hold the bearings for the airbrakes on a fibreglass glider? Can concentration of a protein be determined from a gel quantitatively (rough estimation)? What could cause Earth to slowly fall out of orbit? “I am looking for soaps” or “I am looking for soap” - which one is better? Growing anagrams - What is the longest possible list forming a sentence? Why does bash think: 016 + 1 = 15? Check whether array has only constant entries? Is Minkowski space usually a vector space or an affine space? How could a sail powered airship work? Is there a physical interpretation of a tensor as a vector with additional qualities? Cross Domain request SharePoint hosted app Office 365 Developer Tools Why does Satsuki address everyone using "kisama"? What is this message when somebody wants to send gift money with my item? Is an MS in computer science helpful in improving programming skills? "waterway ... flowed sombre" - Should Joseph Conrad have used an adverb, not an adjective? Redefining \toprule to default line thickness to use in tables What word means what I think "implorements" means? What is a word for a character who incites the conflict in a plot? Does using == in JavaScript ever make sense? "Please enter SETUP to recover BIOS setting" message on boot Will enemies with Wizard spells have spellbooks a PC Wizard can learn from? more hot questions question feed lang-java tour help blog chat data legal privacy policy work here advertising info mobile contact us feedback Technology Life / Arts Culture / Recreation Science Other Stack Overflow Server Fault Super User Web Applications Ask Ubuntu Webmasters Game Development TeX - LaTeX Programmers Unix & Linux Ask Different (Apple) WordPress Development Geographic Information Systems Electrical Engineering Android Enthusiasts Information Security Database Administrators Drupal Answers SharePoint User Experience Mathematica Salesforce more (14) Photography Science Fiction & Fantasy Graphic Design Seasoned Advice (cooking) Home Improvement Personal Finance & Money Academia more (10) English Language & Usage Skeptics Mi Yodeya (Judaism) Travel Christianity Arqade (gaming) Bicycles Role-playing Games more (21) Mathematics Cross Validated (stats) Theoretical Computer Science Physics MathOverflow more (7) Stack Apps Meta Stack Exchange Area 51 Stack Overflow Careers site design / logo © 2015 stack exchange inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required rev 2015.1.10.2163 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled